#summary Notes on trials

= Introduction =

The following details how the trials were completed.


= Details =

For the beginning of the project, code was written on my laptop and both participants saw each others rules and the impacts of rule changes on the simulation.  The starting points of the ships were fixed, so some of the rules assumed as such.  Once the code was in a stable enough state that only changes to the rules needed to be made, the participants began making changes separately without being able to look at each others rules.

A series of trials was run; each time, participants were given a period of time between trials to modify rules in an attempt to best the opponent.  Each trial consisted of 5 simulations.

Trial Results:
{{{
Round 1

North Wins
North Wins
Draw (Both Dead)
Draw (Both Dead)
Draw (Both Dead)

Round 2

North Wins
North Wins
North Wins
North Wins
North Wins

Round 3

North Wins
[bug] play paused
Draw (Both Dead)
North Wins
Draw (Both Dead)
North Wins

Round 4

North Wins
North Wins
North Wins
North Wins
Draw (Both Alive)

Round 5

Draw (Both Alive)
Draw (Both Alive)
Draw (Both Alive)
Draw (Both Alive)
Draw (Both Alive)
}}}

The trials were very interesting.  In the beginning, the north ship won all battles that started at long distance.  Short range battles saw both ships destroyed.  Both ships began firing at greater ranges;  round 2 saw the north ship firing from farther away than the south ship.  Round 3 and 4 saw adaptations in dodging technique from the north ship and tracking and range changes from the south ship.  In round 5, the south ship began targeting the north ship's missile; the technique was very effective, as it left both ships without missiles.